Thank you for agreeing to submit a manuscript to the 'A solid base for scaling
up: the structure of numeration systems' theme issue of Philosophical
Transactions B guest edited by Andrea Bender, Simon Greenhill, Jean Charles
Pelland and Mary Walworth.

Please submit your paper by *02 September 2024* and do let me know as early as
possible if you will not be able to submit on time. All papers in an issue are
published at the same time so the issue publication schedule will be dictated by
the slowest paper; prompt submission is therefore appreciated.

You can contribute a research paper, a review paper or a short opinion piece, as
agreed with the Guest Editor of the issue. Research papers containing new work
must not be under consideration elsewhere. The journal does not enforce a strict
length limit, however papers that are overly long will need to be reduced. As a
guide, please aim for no more than 9 printed pages. This equates to
approximately 6000 words, 250 words of tables and 3 medium figures. You can use
the attached spreadsheet to estimate length.

Please note that your paper will be required to fit the brief given when
commissioned, and meet the high quality standards of the journal. Therefore,
whilst we endeavour to allow opportunities to revise a manuscript throughout the
publication process, the Guest Editors and the journal’s Editorial Board retain
the right to reject papers. A prompt submission of your contribution on schedule
will allow the maximum time possible for revisions to be made.

*Diversity*
The Royal Society is committed to increasing diversity in science and supporting
scientists from all backgrounds, geographic regions and career stages. We
believe that the nature of a /Philosophical Transactions /issue provides an
opportunity for setting a positive example. We ask lead authors to be proactive
in promoting diversity, and we encourage you to provide opportunities for
marginalised individuals and early career researchers where possible. We
strongly encourage the involvement of local researchers and communities in the
countries where research has taken place.


Please use our online checklist to ensure that you have everything ready for
submission: https://royalsocietypublishing.org/rstb/submit
<https://royalsocietypublishing.org/rstb/submit>.

To submit the manuscript, please login to the Manuscript Central site at
https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/issue-ptrsb. Your case-sensitive USER ID is
christoph_rzymski@eva.mpg.de.

If you do not have a password already, please use the password help function on
the login page and ScholarOne support will send you a password. If you do not
receive this password within 24 hours please do contact the office at
philtransb@royalsociety.org and we will chase this request up for you.

If a co-author is uploading on your behalf please let the Editorial Office
(philtransb@royalsociety.org) know so that we can enable them to submit via the
system. The peer review process will be conducted by the Guest Editor(s) via
this system.

Click 'Author Centre'.

Click on the 'Invited manuscripts' link in the left hand panel.

Please answer all the questions that appear and be sure to upload the following
at the file upload stage. A combined PDF is acceptable for the initial
submission for review, but individual files will eventually be required.

1) Text file of the manuscript (Word document, tex or similar) including an
abstract/summary (up to 200 words), 3-6 keywords, references, acknowledgements
and funding, tables (including captions) and figure captions. Please see the
attached template for full details. A LaTeX template is available to download on
our website <https://royalsocietypublishing.org/rstb/for-authors>.

2) Individual high resolution electronic files for each figure in the article
(EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format should be produced directly
from original creation package), or original software format).

3) Any supplementary files to be hosted alongside your paper. This may include
data sets, additional tables, figures or text, movies or audio files etc. We
will not edit or typeset these files so please provide them in the form in which
they should appear online. Please proofread and format them carefully.

4) Please ensure that the submitting author has associated their ORCID with
their account.

5) During the submission process you will be asked to provide statements on data
accessibility, ethics, competing interests and author contributions. Please have
these ready.

A submission template is attached but you should also refer to the information at:
https://royalsocietypublishing.org/rstb/for-authors
<https://royalsocietypublishing.org/rstb/for-authors>
to ensure that your paper will be ready for publication.

OPEN ACCESS

All papers will become free after 1 year automatically. However you may wish to
select our open access option whereby payment of a fee will enable your article
to be made freely available via the Royal Society website as soon as it is
published. We strongly encourage you to opt for open access if you have the
funds available – open access papers on average get downloaded and cited more,
and can increase the impact and reach of your work. For more information please
visit https://royalsociety.org/journals/open-access/
<https://royalsociety.org/journals/open-access/>.

If you are a researcher from an institution signed up to one of our Read &
Publish agreements
<https://royalsociety.org/journals/open-access/read-publish-agreements/>, please
ensure that you select to publish your article open access when you come to
submit your paper, as all open access fees and invoices are automatically
covered by your library.

PREPRINTS AND ARCHIVING

You are allowed to post preprints and accepted author manuscripts on a personal
website, preprint server or repository. Note that the work remains under media
embargo until the date of publication. Please visit
https://royalsociety.org/journals/ethics-policies/media-embargo for more
information.

ON PUBLICATION

All corresponding authors get a link to a free PDF version of their paper to
circulate to colleagues and a print copy of the whole volume.

Please contact philtransb@royalsociety.org with any queries about how to use
ScholarOne.

Yours sincerely,

Helen Eaton
Philosophical Transactions B Editorial Office
